# Overview
This project includes the exploration of a database of 1.88 million wildfires reported in the United States from 1992 to 2015. We note the trends and common causes of wildfires across the country and in specific states, allowing for strategy making for wildfire prevention.

We noticed that we could divide the wildfires into different categories. We can categorize wildfires that started from natural causes (like lightning) from those that started from human causes. We can also categorize wildfires by the number of acres they burn, specifically whether or not they burn more than or fewer than 5000 acres.

Parts 1 and 2 are focused on California, where many of the devastating wildfires were human-caused. We are also interested in linking the degree of wildfire devastation and the trends in temperatures in California and the United States. With that in mind, we have explored datasets of monthly temperatures in California, obtained from the Berkeley Earth project. Trends and seasonalities were analyzed in these time series, and attempts were made to predict monthly temperatures in California.

In Part 3, the database of 1.88 million wildfires is combined with the Berkeley Earth dataset and the HadISDH dataset, allowing us to see how the size of wildfires is related to the temperature and humidity. This project ends with machine learning models that predict whether or not a wildfire will grow to burn more than 5000 acres (i.e. be classified as Class G) given climate conditions and cause (natural vs. human). The model can be used together with forecasted values for the temperature and humidity in various locations in the United States, allowing for measures to be made to minimize or prevent damages from fires.
